And the last one before web
push is background fetch.
I know similar names, right?
Background sync, periodic background sync,
background fetch.
Background fetch is actually
a way that the PWA or
website has to ask the browser,
the rendering engine to download files,
completely separate,
detached from my window.
So if the user closes the PWA,
if the user closes the browser,
I want the files to still be downloaded.
Maybe you're saying, well,
that's like downloading a file.
The difference here is that
when the files are downloaded,
they're not saved in the file system.
It will wake your service worker up again.
And it will tell you hey,
the files you requested are here.
Here you have them.
And the service worker will do something
with the files, parse them, save them.
So it's not downloading
files to the file system,
it's downloading files to the app itself,
okay?
So also, the browser will show an OS
notification about the process.
On android, it generates,
what is known as a fixed notification or
one of those notifications
that you cannot clear,
you cannot remove,
it's there until the process is done.
And a lot of events will be
fired in the Service Worker.
Compare with the previous one,
this is not just one event.
You have when the download finishes, but
also if the user has clicked
the notification, maybe that means that
the user wants to know what's going on
with that, so then you can do something.
On abort, on failure,
and also on progress.
So you can know in your app how's
the progress in that download operation.
You can update your UI in case your
UI is still there, makes sense?
So it's similar to the previous API.
We need a service worker registration, and
then we call fetch to
the background fetch manager.
And we need to pass a name, an array
of URLs to download, and then metadata.
That metadata will go to the notification.
It can be an emash,
a logo of your app, your icon.
The download total is going to be used for
the progress bar but
you don't need to provide
them it's optional, okay?
And that's how you check
if the API is there.
And then,
you handle events in the Service Worker.
Like the backgroundfetchsuccess,
where you will get all all your files.
Again, what you do with the files,
parse them, save them in cache storage.
Save them in index dv, I don't know.
Backgroundfetchclick,
backgroundfetchfailure that those
are the most important ones.
To be honest,
I've never seen a website using this API.
So I've seen the samples I've made but
I've never seen a real website
actually using this API.
And remember, the idea here
is that the download process,
no matter how long it takes,
it will happen even if your app is closed,
even if your web app is closed.
Even if your PWA is closed.
It takes one day, okay, after a day
when the download finishes it will wake
up your Service Worker, it will tell you,
hey here you have the files you requested.
So the idea the originally [COUGH]
was to also let us upload data.
But for some reason it's not there yet.
So the Chrome team already promised
when they presented the API there
is also going to work with Apple,
that makes sense.
I mean, if you wanna upload a video
that you are taking from the gallery,
that takes time.
And right now,
you need to keep your web app active.
Well, right now it's only for
downloads, okay, make sense?
So let's see this in action.
So going back here, I have the last one on
background execution for background fetch.
So we also need the same registration.
So, we wait for the registration, and as
you can see here we don't have permission
to ask, we'll just request
the download and it will happen.
Not bother the size that you
are downloading, it will start.
What we're going to do here
is we are going to say,
we're going to wait for
on the service worker
registration, backgroundFetch.fetch.
Okay, something like this.
And if I wanna,
I can keep it's not necessary,
but I can keep a constant
where I can later cancel that.
It can aboard that later in case
I want to or something like that.
So the fetch needs a name.
For example,
I'm going to download media files.
It's just an internal name in case you're
requesting more than one background fetch.
It's just that.
It's an identifier.
Then an array of files
that you wanna download.
For example, we have in our project,
the video and the audio files.
So we can say media/audio.mp3 and
media/video.mp4.
So I want those files, okay?
And that's all.
And then we have an object with metadata.
We have the title,
Frontend Masters Media files.
This is for the notification,
okay, and icons.
That's the only mandatory thing.
By the way,
icons is also using the same format as
we used before for the media, okay?
The one that I have here for the artwork.
It's the same format, okay?
So I can just reuse the same
object with the same icon.
And actually, that's all.
So in this case,
we have a really fast connection here.
We can change that.
I know we can throttle the connection
in case we wanna see that,
because it's going to be really fast.
No, I was using the other Chrome.
This one.
You need to pay attention to
that part of the browser.
Let's see if that works or
if I have a typo or something.
Register a fetch.
Did you see something there appearing?
That's the UI.
Yeah it's happening really fast,
also because these files are cached.
That's another situation here,
I'm downloading files
that were already cached.
But that's how it works.
Are these files being downloaded
somewhere in the file system, no.
The files are being received
in the Service Worker, and
right now I'm not receiving them.
So to receive the files,
you need another event handler,
addEventListener, okay,
with one of the events that we saw before.
Such as backgroundfetchsuccess.
Lowercase, no underscores, okay?
And you are going to receive
the files reference that you
can use with the file API
directly in an event argument.
Make sense?
Please remember, Chromium only.
Do you have any question?
>> There is no alternative to this for
other browsers?
>> The only alternative is to
download the files with a fetch in
the Service Worker and then the UI.
You won't have any UI, or you can send
messages from the Service Worker to
the client or something like that.
So you can still download
files in the Service Worker.
The problem is that if it takes a day,
okay,
probably the browser will kill the
Service Worker before the file arrives.
So with this API, no,
the browser knows that yeah it will
kill the Service Worker, okay?
But the browser is downloading the files
anyway, even if it takes a day.
>> So
are the files available on the event?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, if you look here,
you have the thing you have an example.
The files let me make
this an async function.
It's registration.matchAll.
MatchAll will give you all the files so
now you have an array of
the files in the cache.
So the files are in the cache and
you can get them if you want and
do something with them like putting
in another cache of storage or
opening them and parsing them.
Typically you use that for
downloading video.
I mean, if the Frontend Master web app has
offline support and you're downloading
large video files, well, you can
download the video using this technique.
So in this case, the Service Worker
finishes execution or you close the app or
wherever, the browser will
still download those files.
And make those files ready for the Service
Worker when the download finishes.
With this, we've covered background sync,
periodic background sync,
and background fetch.
The last API that we have is the one that
most people are waiting for is push.
So the question is,
what possibilities do we have to work
with files today in a browser kind of?
So today you have a full file system
API that will let you open files and
process those files as bytes.
So you can, if you mix that with web
assembly, you can have actually anything.
So you can parse any files and
do whatever you want.
But in terms of the typical use case for
working with files and
fetch typically is to save
those files in the cache, so
then the Service Worker can serve those
files later in the future locally.
That's the most common use case.
The other use case is to open the file and
do something with it.
For example, you can download a zip file.
And then you can unzip the file in
memory in the Service Worker and
take individual files in the archive and
do something with them, parse them or
store them, make sense?
>> Yeah, very, yes.
I've never had to do that, that's awesome.
>> But yeah,
today you can download a zip file and
the Service Worker can unzip it and
then store all the assets individually.
>> And then you mentioned saving it in
the cache is that in the browser's cache?
>> In the browser so that kind of.
So it's in the browser's cache but
today with Service Workers,
there is a new API known as
the cache storage interface.
With the cache storage interface,
you have control of a cache.
So you can decide which files are going
into the cache for how much time and
the Service Worker can deliver
those files in future navigations,
in future page navigations locally.
So everything locally.
You can check the workshop I did on PWAs,
Progressive Web Apps, something.
Also, there are in
the Frontend Masters library,
there are other courses on I think
there is a Kyle Simpson one on
there it's also covering
Service Workers and the cache storage.
So you can get exactly what you can do
the power that you have to actually manage
the files of your app.